[Music]
hi
i'm new one but i'm also known as tiny
girl eats world over on instagram where
you can find me sharing the best eats
i've traveled the globe to try different
cuisines from the hawker centers in
singapore
to the local food that samoan people eat
there is an amazing world of food out
there but in this series i'm bringing
you
the world in your kitchen
today i'm learning more about caribbean
food with kisha sakara
a chef and food writer of montserration
heritage a small island in the caribbean
so keisha what are you going to be
making today so today we're going to be
making montserrat
national dish called goat water it's
kind of like a stew
and it's got influences from africa and
the irish
population that also lived on the island
interesting there's a lot of mixes
involved in that definitely okay so what
are the first steps that we need to do
so first we're gonna brown off the meat
with some sugar
so we need to make a bit of a caramel
with some oil and sugar and then we're
gonna add the meat
and season it and then let that start to
cook great i'm just gonna add some oil
and then the sugar so that the sugar can
burn a little bit and that helps it
give the meat like a brown color okay
because the shoe is really brown
like dark brown and when was the first
time that you made this dish did someone
teach it to you
um i made this with my auntie when i was
little
um but this wasn't a thing you'd have
often it was always like associated with
um like occasions so webbing funerals
that sort of thing
okay because obviously growing up in
england
being an immigrant family the certainty
you don't have access to all the time
whereas if you were in long-term it
would just be more of an everyday day
yeah so like um you could just buy it on
the roadside
or people making it in their houses and
what do you think are the
key things that your grandparents taught
you that made you feel really connected
to your culture
my grandparents came in the 50s during
the windwish era
so i'm second generation but fortunately
for me i spent a lot of time with them
so i got a lot of the island um
i got a lot of the culture through them
so hence why
i know i could cut things like this just
for watching my grandparents
um going to the market doing that whole
thing because
they brought those experiences with them
and recreated them the best way they
could
here yeah they had an allotment as well
which i spent time with them at
um so i'd grow stuff with them we would
like pick peas for example
take them home shell them and then cook
them so i got that experience
from beginning to end so this is like
nice and brown now
so we're going to add some water all
right it's a good amount of water guys
we might even add a bit more actually
because it's going to take a good few
hours to cook so
yeah you really want to stew down and
get all the flavors
and you want it so it's like literally
slipping off the bone and have you been
to monterey recently
at all so i've been once in my life so
far i do want to go again
my mom taught me when i was 14 and that
was like a real full circle moment
growing up my grandparents and them
showing me so much of the culture i then
got to see it for real
and that was the first time i'd had this
there obviously
oh okay so there was a man on the island
that just sold it in the boot of his
truck and uh i know so it's just so
rough and ready
and um yeah we just waited where he
parks up
and we had in a little polystyrene cup
and a napkin and that was that with some
bread
just nice and simple so simple and where
is monterat
so mozart is one of the small islands
that arcs down
from the bottom of mainland north
america
before you reach south america and it's
just off the coast of antigua
so like i know my granddad when he lived
there when he was like in his 20s
and he used to travel back and forth
between mansura and antigua are selling
like fruit and vegetables and stuff so
that's very normal to get if you can't
get what you need on one island
you can go to the next one great so
that's cooking away
and what are the next steps with this
dish so we just skimmed off a bit of the
stuff that bubbles off the meat and
they're not nice things um now we're
going to prepare all the green seasoning
so you can help me if you want oh i
don't yeah so
we've got some sweet peppers and onion
and garlic and whatnot
so all we need to do is just roughly
chop them yeah and then we're going to
blend them
and then add them to the pot okay
and as this is a typical montserration
dish
is would you find similar foods to this
all around the caribbean or the
differences between the different
islands in the caribbean in terms of the
food
yeah like it's funny because so many
islands actually cook
almost exactly the same things but they
just give them different names
and that's usually reflective of who
colonized them or what
part of africa and what population from
africa inhabited them
during like the 15th 16th century i
haven't been lucky
enough myself to visit any um of the
caribbean
but montserrat what is it like there
what's life like
um so monster is a really small island
near antigua unfortunately
only a third of it's populated at the
moment because in 98 they had a volcano
um it it was pretty inactive for a long
time
um erupted and um lava covered like
two-thirds of the island
so even where my grandparents grew up is
no longer inhabitable now
and most people move to the uk or to
america
so with that there's little kind of
tourism for everyday people but there's
a lot of research tourism bio-tourism
and they're looking at how the land is
regrowing now there's new species of
plants and animals
because there's new earth essentially
i'm done with this green pepper is there
anything else that needs to be chopped
to go into the blender take these
okay so you've got some spring onion
yeah so yeah so what's going on the
green seasoning we've got
the sweet peppers that you did celery
spring onion
brown onion as well garlic and scotch
bonnet as well
so there's a little bit of heat in this
and what would you say your favorite
montserration dishes
this one this one definitely yeah
because no other island
well firstly it's my island's national
dish yeah and also no other island
really cooks it this way
so you're a chef and a food writer
and you have a restaurant yeah so tell
me a bit more about your restaurant
so i started as a pop-up in 2018 and
i opened it as a more permanent space in
october 2019
and it was all about just opening the
conversation the narrative
on caribbean food um and the culture
okay and what is your restaurant called
so it's caribe um and yes it's all about
authentic caribbean eating so i really
try and
on the menu just mix it up and do
different foods from different islands
and i'm
actually finding now there's so much to
cover
[Music]
so this is ready now you can smell the
pepper as well yeah
so we're going to add the brownie now
okay oh what is that it looks quite
thick yeah it's like it's like a cut
down caramel without all the sweetness
okay um so it can add color to dishes
without
the sugary taste so we can put the lid
on actually
and leave this to cook i'm going to turn
the heat down a little bit as well
because you want it to kind of have a
bit of a simmer
yeah during your visit to montserrat
were there any experiences that really
stuck out to you and you still really
remember to this day
so me and my mum and auntie and cousins
went to
this like cafe it was literally in the
forest
it was really high up in the mountains i
remember it was really wet this day
and we just had like the best breakfast
it was a full circle moment because
it was all the food and vegetables that
i experienced with my grandparents so
like yam and sweet potato and salt fish
and honestly at 14 i remember just
thinking this is so cool
so whilst that's cooking now i guess we
can just clear up okay and then yeah get
ready to do the last print yes
so keisha at your restaurant caribe what
kind of dishes are you serving up at the
moment
so i changed the menu seasonally
depending on what influences me what
inspires me
um and again i i like to change it to
like just highlight as many islands as
possible so
i go for stuff that is not so known but
equally
i think that people will enjoy or
understand
and then you know just slowly show
what else there is in the culture yeah i
love the idea of you rotating through
your dishes
it just sounds so lovely and it's
amazing that today we've been able to
highlight montserrat
that might you know have been less known
compared to the other islands and we
have our goat wardrobe
that's come out of it today yeah so
there's a few more things we've got to
do
to make to finish it so just to thicken
it a little as it's just water
and we want to put some flour and water
and that's just normal plain flour
yeah oh yeah so just plain flour if you
don't have plain flour you could use
corn flour
just mix it so we're adding the flour
and water like this
so that you don't add it to the pot and
then you get lumps
and just as you're dishing up what would
you typically eat this with at home
um just with some bread yeah nice and
simple
simple yeah because there's a lot of
as much as there's a nice amount of meat
in there there's lots of like
i guess you could call it a gravy or a
juice so the bread will soak it up nice
yeah you want something to mop up all
those
good flavors exactly and i can see that
you've got some extra thyme on the side
yeah so just to finish it off we can put
some thyme on top
are you ready to eat yes look that's
good
that is so tender oh my gosh um
all this spices are just so lovely and
warming i just like feel it right here
at the top of my chest
and there's a little little bit of like
the pepper but not like low it's just a
subtle bit
but yeah i'm really getting all that
flavor from the pepper as well
and that gravy is just nice and slightly
thick yeah and honestly i just need to
grab a piece of bread so i can dip
in to mop it up totally i love how
simple this is really
but so much love and care has gone into
it with all the spices and
flavors that you put in i can just see
why your family treated it is such a
special occasion dish
[Music]